---
title: Home
navigation: false
layout: page
main:
    fluid: false
---

:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}

::block-hero
---
cta:
    - Get started
    - /getting-started/introduction
secondary:
    - Open on GitHub →
    - https://github.com/undervolta/GM-I18n
---

#title
Unlock your potential players' hearts with their favorite language

#description
Empower your game with **localized content** and **multilingual support** to reach your audience in multiple languages. Don't waste your time on the manual language-translation work, let **GM-I18n** handle the localization for you.

#extra
    ::list
    - Comprehensive multi-language support with **JSON**-based locale files
    - Automatic locale file loading with configurable timing
    - Flexible and ease of use **translation** system 
    - Advanced **pluralization** with customizable rules
    - **Dictionary** system for managing related translations
    - **On-the-fly** language switching without restarting the game
    - Customizable message formatting
    ::

#support
    Quick start:
	1. Download the latest release from GitHub
	2. Import it to your project
	3. Use the GM-I18n system
::

::card-grid
#title
:icon{name="hugeicons:package-open"} &nbsp; What's included

#root
:ellipsis{left=0px width=40rem top=10rem blur=140px}

#default
    ::card{icon=iconamoon:lightning-1}
    #title  
    Fast and Powerful Translation
    #description
    Translate your game content in seconds after setting up the GM-I18n system.
    ::

    ::card{icon=fluent:draw-text-20-filled}
    #title  
    Direct Drawing Support
    #description
    Create your own drawing presets and use them to draw the translated text consistently.
    ::

    ::card{icon=flowbite:image-solid}
    #title  
    Localized Assets
    #description
    Not only text translation, but also sprites, sounds, and other assets can be localized.
    ::

    ::card{icon=ic:baseline-center-focus-strong}
    #title
    Strong-typed Parameters
    #description
    Reduce the risk of typos and errors with strong-typed parameters while using the GM-I18n system.
    ::

    ::card{icon=fluent:shield-error-16-filled}
    #title
    Fault-tolerant System
    #description
    Your game won't crash when you make a mistake while using the GM-I18n system.
    ::

    ::card{icon=carbon:drill-down}
    #title
    Robust Fallback System
    #description
    Unavailable translations or assets will be handled automatically to your default language.
    ::

    ::card{icon=codicon:debug-alt}
    #title
    Built-in Debug Message
    #description
    Debug messages will be printed in the console, either as successes, warnings, or errors.
    ::

    ::card{icon=eos-icons:performance}
    #title
    Performance-oriented System
    #description
    The GM-I18n system aim to be as fast as possible without sacrificing performance and readability.
    ::

    ::card{icon=fluent:puzzle-piece-32-regular}
    #title
    Extensible
    #description
    Customize the source code with your own logic, or mix it with other libraries to create a more complete solution.
    ::
::
